feat: Release notes for Codacy Cloud April 2024 DOCS-633 (#2091)
codacy/docs: docs/release-notes/cloud/cloud-2024-04.md

---
rss_title: Codacy release notes RSS feed
rss_href: /feed_rss_created.xml
description: Release notes for Codacy Cloud April 2024.
included_jira_versions: ['2024.04']
codacy_tools_version_old: https://github.com/codacy/codacy-tools/releases/tag/7.10.272
codacy_tools_version_new: https://github.com/codacy/codacy-tools/releases/tag/7.10.305
---

# Cloud April 2024

These release notes are for the Codacy Cloud updates during April 2024.

📢 [Visit the Codacy roadmap](https://roadmap.codacy.com) and <span class="skip-vale">let us know</span> your feedback on both new and planned product updates!

<!--TODO Check these issues manually

Jira issues with disabled release notes

Bugs and other issues:

> -   https://codacy.atlassian.net/browse/ALA-1000

Author: @nicklem Please validate if we should include this one.

Reviewer: [Following up](https://codacy.slack.com/archives/C04EJUDAL8J/p1714744232731459) with the squad

Reviewer: Yes, let's:

```
You can now manually trigger a coverage pull request analysis using the [reanalyzeCoverage](https://api.codacy.com/api/api-docs#reanalyzecoverage) API endpoint. This can help you unblock pull requests that expect to receive a coverage report but only change uncovered files.
```

Author: Added! 👍

-->

## Product enhancements

> -   We revamped the [Security and risk management](../../organizations/managing-security-and-risk.md) area. (TAROT-2546)

Author: @nicklem Feel free to tweak. 🤓

Reviewer: WDYT?

```suggestion
-   Improved [Security and risk management](../../organizations/managing-security-and-risk.md) with:

    -   A redesigned dashboard, offering comprehensive metrics and summary graphs for better visibility and tracking of security findings.
    -   An improved findings table, which now includes a streamlined view of security findings.

    !!! note
        With this update, all references to "security items" will be updated to "security findings" to align with the new features.
```

Author: Looks great! 👍 
I'm moving the ID to the end of the last item, for consistency with the feature removal section. 

```suggestion
-   Improved [Security and risk management](../../organizations/managing-security-and-risk.md) with:
    -   A redesigned overview page, offering comprehensive metrics and summary graphs for better visibility and tracking of security findings.
    -   An improved findings table, which now includes a streamlined view of security findings. (TAROT-2546)
    
    !!! note
        With this update, all references to "security items" will be updated to "security findings" to align with the new features.```

    ![Security and risk management](../images/tarot-2546.png)

> -   We revamped the **Commit** and **Pull Request** detail pages. (ALA-639)

Author: @nicklem Feel free to tweak this one also. 🤓

Reviewer: Given it's a migration and the overall capabilities of the pages are comparable, I'm OK with just mentioning the associated feature removals. Thoughts?

Author: Fair enough. I was assuming there were relevant changes to the overall capabilities of the pages, but if that's not the case we can stick with the mention on the feature removals.

Author: ```suggestion
```

rss_href: /feed_rss_created.xml
description: Release notes for Codacy Cloud April 2024.
included_jira_versions: ['2024.04']
codacy_tools_version_old: https://github.com/codacy/codacy-tools/releases/tag/7.10.272
codacy_tools_version_new: https://github.com/codacy/codacy-tools/releases/tag/7.10.305
---

# Cloud April 2024

These release notes are for the Codacy Cloud updates during April 2024.

📢 [Visit the Codacy roadmap](https://roadmap.codacy.com) and <span class="skip-vale">let us know</span> your feedback on both new and planned product updates!

<!--TODO Check these issues manually

-->

## Product enhancements

-   Improved [Security and risk management](../../organizations/managing-security-and-risk.md) with:
    -   A redesigned overview page, offering comprehensive metrics and summary graphs for better visibility and tracking of security findings.
    -   An improved findings table, which now includes a streamlined view of security findings. (TAROT-2546)
    
    !!! note
        With this update, all references to "security items" will be updated to "security findings" to align with the new features.```

    ![Security and risk management](../images/tarot-2546.png)

> -   You can now manually trigger a coverage pull request analysis using the [reanalyzeCoverage](https://api.codacy.com/api/api-docs#reanalyzecoverage) API endpoint. This can help you unblock pull requests that expect to receive a coverage report but only change uncovered files. (ALA-1003)

Reviewer: Leaving one more tweak after clarifying some details on the [thread](https://codacy.slack.com/archives/C04EJUDAL8J/p1714750871711179?thread_ts=1714744232.731459&cid=C04EJUDAL8J). I'm also removing the use case, as it's useful only in edge cases and a detailed explanation is out of scope here IMO.

```suggestion
-   You can now manually trigger the reanalysis of the coverage of a pull request using the [reanalyzeCoverage](https://api.codacy.com/api/api-docs#reanalyzecoverage) API endpoint. (ALA-1003)
```

---
rss_title: Codacy release notes RSS feed
rss_href: /feed_rss_created.xml
description: Release notes for Codacy Cloud April 2024.
included_jira_versions: ['2024.04']
codacy_tools_version_old: https://github.com/codacy/codacy-tools/releases/tag/7.10.272
codacy_tools_version_new: https://github.com/codacy/codacy-tools/releases/tag/7.10.305
---

# Cloud April 2024

These release notes are for the Codacy Cloud updates during April 2024.

📢 [Visit the Codacy roadmap](https://roadmap.codacy.com) and <span class="skip-vale">let us know</span> your feedback on both new and planned product updates!

## Product enhancements

-   Improved [Security and risk management](../../organizations/managing-security-and-risk.md) with a redesigned overview page, offering comprehensive metrics and summary graphs for better visibility and tracking of security findings. An improved findings table now includes a streamlined view of security findings. (TAROT-2546)

    !!! note
        To align with the new features, all references to "security items" were updated to "security findings".

    ![Security and risk management](../images/tarot-2546.png)

> -   Repository admins can now [bypass Codacy status check](../../faq/code-analysis/can-i-bypass-codacy-status-check.md) to unblock the merge of a pull request on <span class="skip-vale">very</span> specific and exceptional situations. (IO-1036)

Author: Yes, it's always available. However, I considered we didn't want to promote it, thus the **on very specific and exceptional situations**, which is aligned with [the documentation](https://docs.codacy.com/faq/code-analysis/can-i-bypass-codacy-status-check/). 🤔 

@pedrocodacy WDYT? Should we keep the "exceptional use-case" mention, or do you prefer to keep it simple (as below)? 

```suggestion
-   Repository admins can now [bypass Codacy status check](../../faq/code-analysis/can-i-bypass-codacy-status-check.md) to unblock the merge of a pull request. (IO-1036)
```

> -   Repository admins can now [bypass Codacy status check](../../faq/code-analysis/can-i-bypass-codacy-status-check.md) to unblock the merge of a pull request on <span class="skip-vale">very</span> specific and exceptional situations. (IO-1036)

Reviewer 2: I'd prefer as below since it is available for all situations, I think it will be clearer this way for release notes readers 🙏

-   You can now manually trigger the reanalysis of the coverage of a pull request using the [`reanalyzeCoverage`](https://api.codacy.com/api/api-docs#reanalyzecoverage) API endpoint. (ALA-1003)

## Bug fixes

-   The [Codacy configuration file](../../repositories-configure/codacy-configuration-file.md) no longer overrides the [default ignored files](../../repositories-configure/ignoring-files.md#default-ignored-files). Also, Codacy no longer ignores by default files matching the regular expression `.*docs?/.*`. (IO-1031)

> -   Fixed a parsing error causing detcted issues of a commit to show on the analysis logs instead of listed on the commit's Issues tab. (IO-1054)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
-   Fixed a parsing error causing detected issues of a commit to show on the analysis logs instead of listed on the commit's Issues tab. (IO-1054)
```

-   Improved the resilience of cloning repositories during analysis that would sporadically fail. (IO-1057)
-   Fixed an issue in the analysis retention mechanism causing some data to be incorrectly deleted without being eligible for retention. (IO-1059)
-   Codacy no longer updates the [default branch](../../repositories-configure/managing-branches.md) automatically when you change the default branch on your Git provider. (TCE-838)

## Feature removal

Due to their limited adoption, while revamping the **Commit** and **Pull Request** detail pages we removed the following options for the issues listed on the **Issues** tab:

> -   GitHub: Create pull request comments and GitHub issues.

Reviewer 4: Was it pull request comments? I think it was 'commit comments'. Unless I am missing something, I don't remember us having anything to comment on PRs from the UI

Reviewer 3: were Jira integrations available on that screen too or had they already been removed?

Reviewer: @machadoit We [mention PR comments](https://github.com/codacy/docs/pull/1975/files#diff-7f4e89a3c87e75816c07be0a47a92090b7833df324af55e6fe259ed6e9b85e9eL9) in the old docs 🤔 

@mrfyda Already removed IIRC, the entry was already missing in a [screenshot we removed](https://github.com/codacy/docs/blob/f932ac641ff0e6a70e97a4fa5d713383e1a01029/docs/repositories-configure/integrations/images/github-integration-issues.png)

Author: As @nicklem mentioned, we always referred to **pull request comments** on the documentation, and also on [previous release notes](https://docs.codacy.com/release-notes/cloud/cloud-2023-10/#feature-removal).

I would keep it as is, for consistency. @mrfyda @machadoit Thoughts?

Reviewer 3: makes sense then!

> -   GitHub: Create pull request comments and GitHub issues.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
-   GitHub: Create commit comments and issues.
```

Author: @mrfyda **GitHub issues** makes it clear that we are not referring to **Codacy issues**. ([previous thread](https://github.com/codacy/docs/pull/2035#discussion_r1484340107), for reference)

> -   Bitbucket: Create pull requests comments and Bitbucket issues. (ALA-639)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
-   Bitbucket: Create commit comments and issues. (ALA-639)
```

Author: @mrfyda [Same here](https://github.com/codacy/docs/pull/2091#discussion_r1592098257) for **Bitbucket issues**.

---
rss_title: Codacy release notes RSS feed
rss_href: /feed_rss_created.xml
description: Release notes for Codacy Cloud April 2024.
included_jira_versions: ['2024.04']
codacy_tools_version_old: https://github.com/codacy/codacy-tools/releases/tag/7.10.272
codacy_tools_version_new: https://github.com/codacy/codacy-tools/releases/tag/7.10.305
---

# Cloud April 2024

These release notes are for the Codacy Cloud updates during April 2024.

📢 [Visit the Codacy roadmap](https://roadmap.codacy.com) and <span class="skip-vale">let us know</span> your feedback on both new and planned product updates!

<!--TODO Check these issues manually

-->

## Product enhancements

> -   Improved [Security and risk management](../../organizations/managing-security-and-risk.md) with:
>     -   A redesigned overview page, offering comprehensive metrics and summary graphs for better visibility and tracking of security findings.
>     -   An improved findings table, which now includes a streamlined view of security findings. (TAROT-2546)

Author: @nicklem Taking a second look, maybe we can simply the format keeping all information. WDYT?
We can also keep the bulleted list format, if you prefer.

```suggestion
-   Improved [Security and risk management](../../organizations/managing-security-and-risk.md) with a redesigned overview page, offering comprehensive metrics and summary graphs for better visibility and tracking of security findings. An improved findings table now includes a streamlined view of security findings. (TAROT-2546)
```

    !!! note

>         With this update, all references to "security items" will be updated to "security findings" to align with the new features.

Author: @nicklem Tweak to avoid "update/updated" repetition. Let me know if it's ok.

```suggestion
        To align with the new features, all references to "security items" were updated to "security findings".
```
